Carbon Containment Lab Analyst
Environment School - Yale Carbon Containment Lab
68804BR
University Job Title
Research Associate 1, MS
Position Focus:
The Yale Carbon Containment Lab aims to design, test, and develop novel, low-cost, safe, scalable, and verifiable methods of atmospheric carbon containment and removal.  Housed in the Yale School of the Environment, the CC Lab is conducting research at Yale and at pilot field sites across the U.S., working with a variety of academic and non-academic partners.


Under the direction of the Managing Directors and Project Managers, the Analyst will help create cutting-edge solutions to tackle climate change by contribute to defining, implementing, and completing analysis and field assignments in support of CC Lab applied research and development projects. 
The position will:


1.    Design and execute research and analysis, including a full range of quantitative and qualitative techniques.
2.    Collaborate with stakeholders and decision-makers to understand their objectives and challenges.
3.    Find and mine existing datasets to extract and analyze relevant data.
4.    Generate primary data where none exists, for example through web research, interviews, surveys, lab bench trials, and field site data gathering.
5.    Enter data and conducts quality assurance checks.
6.    Analyze data with a variety of methods, including statistical analysis, spatial analysis, and Excel modeling. 
7.    Organize files, contacts, research, data, and other relevant information for projects following CC Lab protocols and systems.
8.    Prepare and present research output in various formats including briefs, reports, and presentations.
9.    Keep track of action items and next steps to advance projects.
10.    Participate in CC Lab team meetings, brainstorming sessions, intern recruiting, and project 


You may be asked to complete an assignment during the interview process. 
Essential Duties
1. Recommends the design and implementation of procedures and protocols under the direction of a higher-level authority. 2. Investigates, analyzes, and reaches preliminary scientific conclusions related to research planning 3. Ensures data results are compiled, analyzed, and presented properly. 4. Analyzes, develops and interprets scientific results. Maintains clear documentation of results. Prepares scientific reports and papers for research proposals and published reports. 5. Performs independent research and laboratory techniques and participates in experimental research planning. 6. Interacts with internal contacts including the PI, research assistants, graduate students, Radiation Safety and Biological Safety officers, and Animal Care personnel to discuss and evaluate research results and to ensure the smooth and safe operation of the laboratory. 7. Interacts with external contacts such as researchers at other institutions, staff at biotechnology and reagents companies to consult on research methods and to keep abreast of product information and developments. 8. May perform other duties as assigned.
Required Education and Experience
Master’s Degree in a scientific discipline and one year experience or an equivalent combination of education and experience.
Required Skill/Ability 1:
Strong analytical and quantitative skills, demonstrated through a record of coursework and professional experience, including but not limited to: Data Science, Statistics, Economics, Environmental Science, Earth Science, Chemical Engineering, or Environmental Engineering.
Required Skill/Ability 2:
Proactive self-starter, resourceful, with the ability to multi-task, learn quickly, and work in a fast-paced environment while maintaining a high degree of attention to detail.
Required Skill/Ability 3:
Demonstrated interest in climate change, carbon removal, reduction, and mitigation. Flexible, creative thinker, and able to interpret and communicate data, science, and trends across varied fields.
Required Skill/Ability 4:
Familiarity with spatial analysis tools (particularly ArcGIS), data analysis tools (such as Python), and/or life-cycle analysis (LCA) and techno-economic analysis (TEA).
Required Skill/Ability 5:
Excellent interpersonal and teamwork skills. Strong written and oral communication skills. Prioritization of organization and preparation. Ability to multi-task and manage multiple projects simultaneously.
Preferred Education, Experience and Skills:
* Experience working in entrepreneurial or experimental settings and working on multiple projects simultaneously.
* Experience and training in consulting, including strategy frameworks or economic analysis.
* Coursework or experience in qualitative research techniques, such as conducting literature reviews, interviews, surveys, case studies, and/or using qualitative data analysis software.
Drug Screen
No