POSITION DESCRIPTION
The National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis (NCEAS) invites applications for a NCEAS Data Analyst (Junior Specialist) in AI for Earth to engage in an environmental data science project in partnership with Microsoft’s AI for Earth initiative. 
This project aims to develop and test an automated approach for rapid ecosystem assessment by leveraging Microsoft Azure cloud and AI tools. This case study will include the organization and analysis of data sets collected by both in situ and remote sensing. Under the supervision of NCEAS Senior Data Scientist, the NCEAS Data Analyst (Junior Specialist) in AI for Earth will develop data pipelines and reproducible analytical workflows to integrate heterogeneous sources of data (tabular, image, etc.) and contribute to developing machine learning models to enable rapid assessment of ecosystem health This full-time position offers a competitive salary and benefits commensurate with experience.
The appointment is for approximately 16 months, with the possibility of extension pending available funds and strong performance. This position will be in residency at NCEAS and located in scenic downtown Santa Barbara, California. NCEAS is a pioneer in open, team-oriented, and data-driven science, and has an inclusive community of postdocs, resident scientists, and analysts, as well as frequent visiting leading scientists and practitioners from around the world. 
Minimum Qualifications:
A baccalaureate degree (or equivalent degree) in environmental science, earth science, ecology, data science, computer science, or a related field at the time of application
Preferred Qualifications:
Master's degree in environmental science, earth science, ecology, data science, computer science, or a related field
At least 2 years of  experience in data analysis
Clean, efficient coding abilities, in Python and/or R, with experience parallel processing and using cloud computing resources
Ability to build predictive models and machine-learning algorithms, and present
information using data visualization techniques
Experience in geospatial and spatiotemporal analysis, remote sensing, image processing, feature selection preferred
Understanding of ecosystem monitoring and assessments
Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, paired with the ability to develop creative and efficient solutions
Strong interpersonal communication skills
Team-oriented mindset
 
Please submit your application to UC Recruit:
https://recruit.ap.ucsb.edu/JPF01977
You must include the following:
Curriculum Vitae
Cover Letter, including a description of your experience in data analysis, and a
statement about your environmental data science interests and expertise.
Names of 3 References (contact information only)
TERM OF APPOINTMENT: Approximately 16 months, with the potential for extension pending funding and evaluation of performance.
SALARY AND BENEFITS: Junior Specialist position, with salary step
commensurate with qualifications. 100% time appointment, with possibility for additional year(s) of employment contingent upon performance and funding. Full benefits package included.
POSITION AVAILABLE: Start date June 30, 2021 or as soon as possible thereafter.
TO APPLY: Please submit a cover letter, CV, and contact information for 3 references online at: 
CLOSING DATE: Preference will be given to applications received by 5/31/2021. The position is open until filled.
The department is especially interested in candidates who can contribute to the diversity and excellence of the academic community through research, teaching and service.
The University of California is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law.
Department: https://www.nceas.ucsb.edu