Full-Time Data Specialist, Center for Reservoir and Aquatic Systems Research
Please apply by April 3, 2021 to ensure full consideration. New applications will continue to be reviewed until the position is filled. Please submit your application here.
The global change and freshwater ecosystem analysis research group at Baylor University (https://sites.baylor.edu/powersresearchgroup/) is recruiting a full-time data specialist to engage in scientific research support for diverse short-term and sustained projects. Primary job responsibilities include handling and managing all portions of the data lifecycle, which includes wrangling, visualization, analysis, dissemination, data publication, as well as training others in such capacities.
Baylor has outstanding facilities situated about a 90-minute drive from the Austin and Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas metro areas. The research group and lab space are housed in the 500,000 sq ft Baylor Sciences Building. The position start date is flexible and could begin between April and September 2021. Collaboration with other researchers in the Biology Department and the Center for Reservoir and Aquatic Systems Research is anticipated.
Required qualifications: Either a Master’s degree in environmental science, hydrology, ecology, natural resources, earth science, geography, climate science or related program, OR alternatively, a data-intensive background combined with a demonstrated interest in water quality and human-environment interactions. Working knowledge of R/Rstudio is required.
Preferred qualifications: Prior experience with GitHub collaboration and R packages for data processing and visualization (e.g., tidyverse, ggplot2, dplyr, data.table). Future interest in some combination of the following: R Shiny applications or other web-based decision support tools, Data Carpentry / Software Carpentry, metadata, relational databases, data stories, workshop coordination, curation of datasets from Baylor’s analytical chemistry instruments and environmental sensors.
Other qualifications: Previous experience in any of the following would be a plus, but is not required: Use of public water databases, remotely sensed and/or geospatial datasets, Google Earth Engine, SQL, QGIS, Leaflet, Python or other coding languages, aqueous analytical chemistry methods, use of environmental sensors, experience driving and towing a boat, social media engagement, web design.
Please direct any related communications to s_powers@baylor.edu ideally with “data specialist” in the subject line.