Position Number:
	125866
	Title:
	Faculty Assistant
	Functional Title:
	Data Science Fellow
	Category Status:
	15-Fac.Non-Tenured,Continuing Con
	Applicant Search Category:
	Faculty
	University Authorized FTE:
	100
	Unit:
	SPHL-Maryland Institute for Applied Environmental Health
	Campus/College Information:
	Founded in 1856, University of Maryland, College Park is the state’s flagship institution. Our 1,250-acre College Park campus is just minutes away from Washington, D.C., and the nexus of the nation’s legislative, executive, and judicial centers of power. This unique proximity to business and technology leaders, federal departments and agencies, and a myriad of research entities, embassies, think tanks, cultural centers, and non-profit organizations is simply unparalleled. Synergistic opportunities for our faculty and students abound and are virtually limitless in the nation’s capital and surrounding areas. The University is committed to attracting and retaining outstanding and diverse faculty and staff that will enhance our stature of preeminence in our three missions of teaching, scholarship, and full engagement in our community, the state of Maryland, and in the world.
	Background Checks
	Offers of employment are contingent on completion of a background check. A prior criminal conviction or convictions will not automatically disqualify a finalist from employment in the position.
	Vaccine Protocol
	The University of Maryland has made the safety of our students, faculty and staff, and our surrounding communities a top priority. As part of that commitment, the University System of Maryland (USM) recently announced that students, faculty, and staff on USM campuses this fall, including UMD, are required to be vaccinated against COVID. As a prospective and/or a new employee at UMD, you will be required to comply with the University’s vaccination protocol. Proof of full vaccination will be required before the start of employment in order to work at any University of Maryland location. Prospective or new employees may seek a medical or religious exemption to the vaccination requirement at return.umd.edu and must have an approved exemption prior to the start of their employment. Failure to provide proof of vaccination or to obtain approval for a medical or religious exemption will result in the offer of employment being rescinded.
	Position Summary/Purpose of Position:
	The CEEJH Data Science Fellow will work closely with the various members of the Center for Community Engagement, Environmental Justice and Health (CEEJH) led by Dr. Sacoby Wilson, a national expert on environmental justice and community science. The CEEJH Data Science Fellow will assist in a wide variety of tasks related to data analysis and management. Some of their work responsibilities will include: 


● Build user friendly data platforms for community science and environmental justice applications.  


● Perform data analysis to identify trends followed by a variety of techniques (such as data mining, statistical analysis etc.). This may include the use of Big Data Analytics.


● Identifying and using appropriate analytical methods including logistic and linear regression models for data analysis.


● Develop and implement data quality assurance procedures to ensure validity and reliability of study results.


●Data cleaning, processing, visualization, management, and interpretation. 




Salaried full-time position: $80,000 


	Minimum Qualifications:
	● Bachelor’s degree
● Experience in app development (React Native, NativeScript) including UI and production
● Familiarity with a variety of programming languages such as Python, SQL, C++, and/or JavaScript, Swift, Kotlin to write code 
● Expertise in SAS, R, Stata, and other statistical software
● Experience in database management
● Experience in building data platforms 
● Experience in machine learning 


	Preferences:
	● Understanding of environmental health and environmental justice issues.
● At least two years of work experience.
● Masters degree.




	Additional Certifications:
	

	Additional Information:
	

	Posting Date:
	10/15/2021
	Closing Date:
	

	Open Until Filled
	Yes
	Best Consideration Date
	10/29/2021
	Physical Demands
	Standard office environment
	Diversity Statement:
	The University of Maryland, College Park, an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer, complies with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations regarding nondiscrimination and affirmative action; all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment. The University is committed to a policy of equal opportunity for all persons and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, physical or mental disability, protected veteran status, age, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, creed, marital status, political affiliation, personal appearance, or on the basis of rights secured by the First Amendment, in all aspects of employment, educational programs and activities, and admissions.
	Applicant Documents
Required Documents
1. Resume
2. Cover Letter
3. List of References (no emails sent from system)