Geospatial Centroid Research and Program Coordinator
Posting Details
Working Title Geospatial Centroid Research and Program Coordinator
Position Location Fort Collins, CO
Research Professional
Position Yes
Posting Number 202100138AP
Position Type Admin Professional/ Research Professional
Classification Title Research Associate III
Number of Vacancies
Work Hours/Week 40
Proposed Annual Salary
Range $50,000-60,000
Employee Benefits Colorado State University (CSU) is committed to providing employees with a strong and competitive benefits package that supports you, your
health, and your family. Visit CSU’s Human Resources website for detailed benefit plan information for permanent full-time and part-time
faculty and administrative professional employees in the following University benefit areas. https://hr.colostate.edu/wpcontent/
uploads/sites/25/2021/01/benefits-summary-afap.pdf.


To ensure full consideration, applications must be received by 11:59pm (MT) on 03/15/2021


Description of Work Unit The Geospatial Centroid at CSU provides essential services to CSU, the regional community, and numerous partner organizations by promoting, exploring, examining, and implementing geospatial sciences. Housed in the Morgan Library, the Centroid serves as a resource for geospatial education and training; spatial data discovery, generation and sharing; and cartographic and digital map creation services. The
Centroid organizes numerous activities and events related to the geospatial sciences. Most importantly, the Centroid promotes emerging
research areas involving GIS. The Centroid works closely with research faculty and students to provide guidance on the unique characteristics of geospatial data and analysis.


Tasks for this position will include: creating, coordinating, and documenting education and research efforts for sharing geospatial analysis
approaches; creating interactive web applications to make it easier for people to interact with geospatial and other data; work with research
groups at the university to incorporate more geospatial analyses into their programs; build and maintain guiding documents for best practices
in geospatial analysis suites including using open source software like R and Python with Git, GitHub and RMarkdown workflows; record and
distribute training videos; manage training workshops. Additional projects may include co-developing new research projects with faculty at
CSU and building robust interactive tutorials for teaching open-source GIS trainings.


Required Job Qualifications
Education level: Master’s degree in computer science, environmental science, GIS or similar degree + 2 years of experience.
3 + years of working with open-source software like R or Python for data analysis, management, and visualization.


Preferred Job Qualifications
Demonstrated teaching experience in the classroom, workshops, and/or creating online content for learning.
Geospatial and general data analysis and visualization experience across multiple languages/platforms (Javascript, Google Earth Engine,
Python, R).
Experience programming with a team using Git, GitHub, RMarkdown, and/or Jupyter Notebooks
Content creation experience, especially producing lecture videos, building websites, and/or creating tutorials.
Strong communication skills and a desire to work collaboratively with other people at the Centroid and across the university.
Demonstrated ability to lead and complete a research project such as a research paper, course, or other related projects.
Demonstrated understanding of the principles of diversity, equity, inclusion, and social justice and how they relate to the mission of the CSU
Libraries and geospatial data services in particular
Diversity Statement Reflecting departmental and institutional values, candidates are expected to have the ability to advance the Libraries’ commitment to diversity and inclusion.


Essential Duties
Job Duty Category Coordinate and Create new Programs and Education opportunities at the Centroid
Duty/Responsibility The Centroid has a long history of training students and the community in GIS analysis. This position will be responsible for growing this training program, and coordinating education activities with the Centroid Director, Education Coordinator, and other Centroid staff. Additionally, this person will be responsible for helping to build new programs to connect more research groups and community members to the Centroid. These could include building websites for research groups to access and visualize data, performing analyses for research groups that have
historically not used GIS analyses, and other related tasks.