Company Background
In the United States, over a third of all the food we grow is lost to spoilage and w
developing world, more than half of all produce is lost to spoilage before it can be c
agricultural solutions inspired by and derived from nature for growers to protect their
harvested fresh produce. We are committed to being a technological and environ
between the agricultural, materials science, chemistry, biotechnology, and engine
waste and reduce reliance on pesticides. Our mission is to enable widesprea
development of high-performance pre- and post-harvest products and processes t
resources and safeguard the Earth’s delicate ecological balance.
Company Culture
Apeel is comprised of highly talented, deeply passionate, and strongly tight-knit team
opportunity to challenge the status quo, are obsessed with solving problems, and trul
feed the world.
Our people are core and absolutely fundamental to our company’s success and co
what do you see? Team members who are working tirelessly and selflessly—not to
team as a whole strategically, aggressively, and collectively realize a shared mission
opportunity to jump in, tackle challenges (and opportunities!) head-on, take ownersh
in a highly collaborative, communicative, and dynamic environment, we would love to


Job Description
Apeel Sciences seeks a highly motivated and experienced software engineer to de
structure, and analysis pipelines for our IoT sensors in addition to building out backe
mining IoT data.


The ideal candidate will be excited about the possibility of working with world-class
food waste through data-driven decision making. Apeel is seeking a person who
about writing well-structured and maintainable object-oriented code, and meticulous
secure data pipelines.


As an IoT engineer, the right candidate may have embedded systems experience, wit
communication, microcontroller programming, and/or electronics design. It is expec


create well-constructed backend architecture around distributed sensors, to inclu
access, to include offline/online database syncing and a RESTful API.


Responsibilities
Create reliable hardware and software for interfacing with research instruments (
etc.)
Work collaboratively with data scientists, interdepartmental stakeholders, and custo
data collection and analysis projects
Drive optimization and automation of data collection and storage from distrib
paradigm
Build and maintain databases, or utilize cost-effective and reliable third-party SaaS
data, depending on cost effectiveness
Create a backend API for our existing applications to implement to get real-time da
Present frequently to the company (~once per 3 weeks) regarding deliverables, find
the impact to business value
Requirements:
B.S. degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, or equivalent experience
3+ years’ experience with software development
Experience with Python, one of PostgreSQL/MySQL/MariaDB/MongoDB, and Git
Strong oral and written communication skills
An appreciation for teamwork and collaborative problem solving
Would Be Great To See:
Experience developing with Django/Flask
Experience with Apache Spark, Cassandra, Hadoop, Terraform, Kubernetes, Resi
products (AWS, Google Cloud)
Experience with microcontrollers, embedded systems design and implementatio
focused system administration


Apeel believes that the scale of our impact is determined by the teams that work with
performing teams of people from various experiences and backgrounds who can c
new realms. We seek a diverse pool of applicants and consider all qualified candid
color, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, religion, national origin, cit
marital status, or any other protected status. If you have a special need or disabi
please let us know.