Department of Fish and Wildlife
JC-276672
Spatial Ecologist
SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENTISTS (SPECIALIST)
$7,336.00 - $9,126.00 per Month
Final filing Date: 11/16/2021
Job Description and Duties
Are you passionate about the conservation of California’s biodiversity? Are you interested in supporting conservation decisions by developing wildlife and habitat connectivity data and models? If so, then continue reading about this exciting position!


Under the general direction of a Senior Environmental Scientist (Supervisory) in the Biogeographic Data Branch, and as a member of the California Department of Fish and Wildlife's (CDFW) Conservation Analysis Unit, the incumbent is responsible for creating, maintaining and utilizing conservation-oriented decision-support models and tools, in particular related to wildlife and habitat connectivity. The incumbent will conduct complex spatial analyses relevant to habitat connectivity and movement corridor needs of California’s diverse biological resources now and into the future, incorporating adaptation to future climate change. The incumbent will compile data and develop species distribution models for use in connectivity modeling and other conservation decision-support tools and will assess the utility of these models for conservation decision-making. The incumbent will coordinate and lead technical teams, and will provide technical support, outreach, and training on the appropriate use and interpretation of these data products. Specified activities require knowledge of California fish and wildlife resources; geography; ecological principles; connectivity science and road ecology; and spatial modeling using ArcGIS, Python, and R.
Required Application Package Documents
The following items are required to be submitted with your application. Applicants who do not submit the required items timely may not be considered for this job:
* Current version of the State Examination/Employment Application STD Form 678 (when not applying electronically), or the Electronic State Employment Application through your Applicant Account at www.CalCareers.ca.gov. All Experience and Education relating to the Minimum Qualifications listed on the Classification Specification should be included to demonstrate how you meet the Minimum Qualifications for the position.
* Resume is required and must be included.
* School Transcripts
* Statement of Qualifications - Statement of Qualifications - A Statement of Qualifications (SOQ) is required. Please see below for SOQ instructions.

The Supplemental Questionnaire must be in 12 pt Arial font, limited to no more than one (1) page.
Question 1: Please describe why you are interested in this position.
Question 2: Please describe your skills and experience developing spatial models using ArcGIS, R, Python, or similar programs, for use in conservation decision-making.
Question 3: Please describe how your experience and background prepare you to lead projects to develop habitat connectivity and animal movement models.
* Other - A cover letter is required. Please submit a cover letter with your application.
Applicants requiring reasonable accommodations for the hiring interview process must request the necessary accommodations if scheduled for a hiring interview. The request should be made at the time of contact to schedule the interview. Questions regarding reasonable accommodations may be directed to the EEO contact listed on this job posting.
Desirable Qualifications
In addition to evaluating each candidate's relative ability, as demonstrated by quality and breadth of experience, the following factors will provide the basis for competitively evaluating each candidate:
The ideal candidate will have: a strong knowledge of California geography and wildlife resources, ecological principles; experience in spatial modeling using ArcGIS, Python, and R; a demonstrated interest in connectivity science or road ecology; good analytical, interpersonal, public, presentation, communication, and writing skills; and experience routinely using computer programs including text processing, spreadsheets, relational databases, and on-line sourcing of information.


The successful candidate will demonstrate that they: are responsible and adaptable; exhibit integrity and attention to detail; can work on multiple priorities with a high level of productivity; are an an effective verbal and written communicator; are able to work independently and in a team setting; exhibit a high degree of personal initiative, dependability, professionalism, and integrity; communicate politely and tactfully; demonstrate excellent listening skills; and work effectively in a diverse work environment.