Provost & Pritchard is seeking a person with an interest and passion for assisting entities in California
with surface water and groundwater regulatory issues. This person will be a technical consultant to
multiple client types including agricultural organizations, nonprofits, public agencies, food processers,
wineries, and others in the Central Valley and Central Coast of California. Support will be provided to
clients implementing regulatory programs such as the Irrigated Lands Regulatory Program (ILRP), Central
Valley Salinity Alternative for Long-Term Sustainability (CV-SALTS), individual Waste Discharge
Requirements (WDRs), the Winery General Order, and possibly others.


Qualifications:
B.S. or M.S. in a relevant science, engineering, geology, or environmental field.
o Such as: civil/agricultural/environmental engineering, water resource management, soil
science, geology, hydrogeology, hydrology, environmental or earth science, biology,
chemistry, etc.
Strong technical background in the natural and physical sciences (chemistry, physics, earth
science, geology, soil science, biology), mathematics, environmental/water quality, and/or
statistics.
Familiarity with analytical laboratory analysis methods and related data QA/QC.
Excellent communication skills, especially technical writing and public presentations.
Proficiency in some of the following data management and analysis skills:
o Microsoft Office 365, specifically Excel and Access.
o Knowledge of SQL or VisualBasic programming.
o Data cleaning, data QA/QC, and preparation of datasets for analysis.
o Proficiency in making graphs using data visualization software (i.e., Grapher, SigmaPlot,
etc.).
o Experience and continued interest in performing data analysis and visualization using
programming languages such as Python, R/RStudio, VisualBasic, and/or Matlab.
o Experience with data wrangling; capability of utilizing data taken from standardized and
non-standard formats and summarizing in tables, graphics, and reports.
o Experience manipulating and analyzing large environmental datasets (e.g., SSURGO,
CIMIS, USGS, NOAA, ACOE) and related data management systems (e.g., EQuIS).
o Experience with Power BI, R Shiny, R Markdown, Periscope, or other dashboard tools.
Familiarity with GIS, AutoCAD, and/or remote sensing.
Bilingual (English and Spanish) a plus.
Background in agriculture.


About Our Company
Provost & Pritchard was founded on the belief that we should all enjoy what we do and where we work.
We make significant effort to help everyone set professional objectives and pursue the projects and
services that interest them most, while ensuring they maintain the life/work balance that they each
desire. Provost & Pritchard is also an employee-owned company allowing all staff to benefit from the
company’s success.


For over five decades, Provost & Pritchard has upheld a tradition of excellence in California. Our focus is
serving our clients well. We work with our clients to transform their projects from concepts to
completion by developing practical solutions. We offer a diverse set of services including civil and
agricultural engineering, hydrogeology, planning, environmental, surveying and construction
management. With seven offices stretching from Chico to Bakersfield, our staff is accessible to our
clients throughout the state.


To learn more about working with Provost & Pritchard please visit: https://provostandpritchard.com/
If interested, please submit your resume to hr@ppeng.com or apply online.